---
layout: post
title: 'Vue'
published: true
tags: [vue]
---

## Hello world

1. import: `<script src="https://unpkg.com/vue"></script>`
2. HTML

```html
<div id="app">{{ message }}</div>
```

3. javascript

```js
var app = new Vue({
  el: '#app',
  data: {
    message: 'hello, world',
  },
})
```

HTML 中用一个 mount point `<div id="app">`, 在 javascript 创建一个 Vue 示例。

## HTML 渲染

1. 文本插值: {{Message}}
2. v-bind：`:title` e.g. ` <span v-bind:title="message">`
3. v-on: `@` 事件处理 `  <button v-on:click="reverseMessage">逆转消息</button>`
4. 条件: v-if
5. 循环： v-for
6. 用户输入： v-model `  <input v-model="message">`

## component

```js
// 定义名为 todo-item 的新组件
Vue.component('todo-item', {
  template: '<li>这是个待办项</li>',
})
```

##

## Vue class / instance

```js
var vm = new Vue({})
```

### Options/\*

1. el: 锚点
2. data: 要绑定的数据
3. computed: 复杂属性
4. props: 对外的属性接口，类似 C# /Android 中 view 等属性。
5. methods: 方法

## API

### global config

- silent
- optionMergeStrategies
- devtools
- errorHandler
- warnHandler
- ignoredElements
- keyCodes
- performance
- productionTip

### Global API

- Vue.extend(options)
- Vue.nextTick([callback, context])
- Vue.set(target, key, value)
- Vue.delete(target, key)
- Vue.directive(id, [definition])
- Vue.filter(id, [definition])
- Vue.component(id, [definition])
- Vue.use(plugin)
- Vue.mixin(mixin)
- Vue.compile(template)
- Vue.version

### Options/data

- data
- props: A list/hash of attributes that are exposed to accept data from the parent component.
- propsData: initial / default data for props
- computed:

## Questions

1. what is javascript prototype?

   > fdf

2. what is javascript context this?
   > The answer is short and simple: Scope pertains to the visibility of variables, and context refers to the object within which a function is executed.

## javascript context/ scope/ this

- context/ this: function

context means **this** keyword

Context is most often determined by how a function is invoked. When a function is called as a method of an object, this is set to the object the method is called on:

So for a global function, this refers to 'window' in browser

- scope: variable

  - local
  - Global
  - block: let/ const

  [Understanding Scope and Context in JavaScript](http://ryanmorr.com/understanding-scope-and-context-in-javascript/)

- Execution Context

- Execution stack
  > The answer is short and simple: Scope pertains to the visibility of variables, and context refers to the object within which a function is executed.
